### Exercise 1
*Is the PRAM a NUMA or UMA model? Is the PRAM a SIMD or a MIMD model? Does the SPMD characterization apply to the PRAM? Anticipating the programming frameworks to come, what can the advantages of adhering to an SPMD style possibly be? Anticipating even further, is the PRAM a PGAS model?*

---

1. PRAM is a mostly theoretical model that is defined to use a single global memory. Also, it is not modelled in any way that access times in PRAMs differ: They are simply assumed to always take the same time. These facts given, PRAM is an UMA model.
2. The PRAM code we were presented, or more precisely its par-construct, always split the data into p parts for p processor. These processors operated independently, but in lockstep, on different data. They also operated on different parts of the given datastructures. Clearly: MIMD. (**IT IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR TO ME IF THAT CODE IS = PRAM. IT IS NOWHERE TO BE FOUND IN THIS FOUNDATIONAL PAPER [1]**)
3. Having several programs cooperating for a single application (MPMD) can be very hard to read, understand and maintain. Reading a single, fork-join program, on the other hand, is much easier.
4. A PGAS model is a model where the global memory address space is logically partitioned and where each such segment is local to a certain process, thread or other processing element. While processes are not modelled in PRAM, since they are irrelevant to the performance concerns we are trying to settle with PRAM, threads do exist. They, though, do not have their own partitions in global memory: The PRAM is not a PGAS modell.

<br>
<br>


[1] https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/800133.804339